1.2.6 Diagnostic
As shown in the examples presented in the previous sections, nowadays the complexity of electronic architectures embedded in a car infers functions deployed on several microcontrollers to intensively interact between themselves. Therefore, diagnosis has become a vital function throughout the lifetime of a vehicle. So, any system that can help to access and relate information about a car is obviously very important and should be designed simultaneously with the original design of the car. In particular, specifying a system that is able to collect information and establish onboard diagnostics (OBD) is advantageous for the vehicle’s owner as well as for a repair technician.
The generic term used for this function is “onboard diagnostics” or OBD. More  precisely, this concept refers to self-diagnosis and reporting facilities, which were made possible with the introduction of computer-based systems that could memorize large amounts of information. While the role of early diagnostic functions was limited to a light switching on as soon as a specific problem was detected, recent OBD systems are based on standardized communication means—a standardization of monitored data and a standardized coding and reporting of a list of specific failures, termed diagnostic trouble codes (DTC). Thanks to this standardization effort, the memorized values of parameters can be analyzed through a single compliant device. The underlying intent to this standardization effort was a regulatory constraint on exhaust emission control systems throughout the useful lifetime of a vehicle. The OBD-II specification, mandatory for all cars sold in the United States as of 1996, precisely defines the diagnostic connector, the electrical signaling protocol, the messaging format, as well as the vehicle parameters that can be monitored. In 2001, the European Emission Standards Directive 98/69/EC [19] established the requirement of EOBD, a variant of OBD-II, for all petrol vehicles sold in the European Union as of January 2001. Several standards have been successively provided: ISO 9141-2 concerns a low-speed protocol close to that of RS-232 [20], ISO 14230 introduced the protocol KWP2000 (Keyword Protocol 2000) that enables larger messages [21], and ISO 15765 proposes a diagnostic, termed Diag-on-CAN, which uses a CAN [22]. The next step forecast will enable reporting emissions violations by the means of a radio transmitter.